---
layout: minutes
date: 2020-03-02
title: Publishing Working Group Telco â€” 2020-03-02
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/publishing/groups/publ-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020/2020-03-02-pwg",
        "name": "Publishing Working Group Telco â€” Minutes",
        "about": "Publishing Working Group Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2020-03-02",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "Publishing Working Group Telco",
            "startDate": "2020-03-02",
            "endDate": "2020-03-02",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Wendy Reid"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Tim Cole"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dave Cramer"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ivan Herman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Lars Wallin"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Gregorio Pellegrino"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Cristina Mussinelli"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ben Schroeter"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Joshua Pyle"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Bill Kasdorf"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Garth Conboy"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Deborah Kaplan"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Tzviya Siegman"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# Publishing Working Group Telco â€” Minutes
{: .no_toc}

**Date:** 2020-03-02

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publ-wg/2020Feb/0012.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2020/03/02-pwg-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Dave Cramer, Ivan Herman, Lars Wallin, Gregorio Pellegrino, Cristina Mussinelli, Wendy Reid, Ben Schroeter, Tim Cole, Joshua Pyle, Bill Kasdorf, Garth Conboy, Deborah Kaplan, Tzviya Siegman

**Regrets:** Marisa DeMeglio, Ric Wright, Geoff Jukes

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Wendy Reid

**Scribe(s):** Tim Cole

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


> *Ivan Herman:* /topic Meeting Agenda 2020-03-02: [https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publ-wg/2020Feb/0012.html](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publ-wg/2020Feb/0012.html)

> *Wendy Reid:* [https://www.w3.org/publishing/groups/publ-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020/2020-02-03-pwg](https://www.w3.org/publishing/groups/publ-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020/2020-02-03-pwg)

### 1. minutes
{: #section1}

**Wendy Reid:** Any comments?  

> ***Resolution #1: last minutes approved***
{: #resolution1 .resolution}

### 2. Deep Linking in Audiobooks
{: #section2}

> *Wendy Reid:* [https://github.com/w3c/audiobooks/issues/76](https://github.com/w3c/audiobooks/issues/76)

**Wendy Reid:** question raised by Lars  
â€¦ we have not specified a method in the spec  
â€¦ may need more than (or different than) Web annotations  
â€¦ may be a v2 item, but let's discuss  

**Dave Cramer:** what do we mean by deep linking? different than regular linking?  

**Lars Wallin:** What I meant was ability to link to a specific time offset in a specific resource in the reading order  
â€¦ I can't think of a specific way to link to a particular resource in a packaged resource  
â€¦ may also be a problem even in unpackaged resources, e.g., creating bookmarks etc.  
â€¦ I have suggestions  
â€¦ as soon as user agent has read the manifest and deduced that it is an audio book, user agent should treat the book as a discrete resource and then use media fragments  

> *Ivan Herman:* See [media fragments](https://www.w3.org/TR/media-frags/)

**Lars Wallin:** e.g., use time-offset media fragments to the url of the book  
â€¦ would then be up to the user agent  
â€¦ a back up for unpackaged is where you specify entire url to a component within the book  
â€¦ url should take file name and fragment and start from the root and make sure you end up in the proper place.  

**Ivan Herman:** this makes sense, but still trying to understand the problem  
â€¦ if you are talking about unpacked audio book, media fragments is already sufficient to point within any component of the book  
â€¦ so I don't think we don't have a spec issue  
â€¦ for packaged file, @Lars description sounds fine for the user agent  
â€¦ the problem then becomes how do I as a user specify 22 seconds into the 2nd chapter of the packaged book  

**Dave Cramer:** Lars, could you add details to the issue (what you said here)  

> *Ivan Herman:* +1 to dauwhe_

**Lars Wallin:** one small issue with linking to a file within an audio book - works for the web platform  
â€¦ and for a user agent understanding the manifest, you'll be okay  
â€¦ but just send the url with fragment to a Web browser, you lose connection to the larger publication  
â€¦ ends up being too loose  
â€¦ possibly we could have a Web API that is effectively a more formal version of the toc, exposes the book as a something like a web site  
â€¦ I will add to issue  

**Ivan Herman:** some of these are issues that we have discussed and decided to defer  
â€¦ haven't really been able to find a solution  
â€¦ there are for example security issues that we have not yet been able to resolve  
â€¦ beyond this working group at this time (i.e., now in CR)  

**Garth Conboy:** +1 to ivan's comments.  
â€¦ back in EPub land we had EPub CFI and it didn't really get much uptake  
â€¦ seems out of scope right now  
â€¦ bookmarking to individual resources already there  

**Lars Wallin:** Understand that the bigger issue is out of scope  
â€¦ but as a reading system vendor, especially for packaged audio books, we need some way to ensure interoperability  
â€¦ so we need some to specify a local locator within a packaged audio book sooner rather later  
â€¦ perhaps we can add a comment that user agents should be able reference a point in timeline of book  

**Ivan Herman:** 1) it would be a good thing to add a note, calling attention of implementers to media fragments and making clear that this can be addressed with relative addresses plus media fragments  
â€¦ this would be an okay, non-normative change, so okay.  
â€¦ 2) on more general problem, linking into content of a book, that's something we may want to raise this issue very clearly for future work  
â€¦ So Tzviya for example understands importance of being able to reference third word of second paragraph very important for scholarly publish  
â€¦ so let's put on agenda for CG  

**Lars Wallin:** Working hard to implement existing annotation standards, but need more  
â€¦ so will follow up with Wendy, and augment the issue  

> *Ivan Herman:* Lars++

**Wendy Reid:** this is of interest to CG and it's a problem for not just audio books, but also most other book formats  

### 3. scheduling changes
{: #section3}

> *Lars Wallin:* Yay :D

**Wendy Reid:** daylight savings time changes starting next week. If we leave at same time in US, it'll be an hour earlier in Europe  

**Ivan Herman:** yes, next call at 5 PM in Europe  

**Wendy Reid:** will make sure to add reminder  

**Ivan Herman:** Starting with meeting on 23rd, Europe is back to same time as today  

### 4. Testing updates
{: #section4}

**Wendy Reid:** Kobo is planning on implementing but won't hit the March 30th deadline (at least not on the schedule we're looking at)  

**Lars Wallin:** Will finally start implementing tests - should start before London.  

> *Ivan Herman:* Lars++ (again!)

**Lars Wallin:** Should have test complete, public release around end of March / first of April  
â€¦ need to speak more about how to add annotations  
â€¦ would like to have in place before the summer  

**Wendy Reid:** any other updates?  

**Lars Wallin:** Convinced friends at Hinderburg, company that develops authoring tools overlays, etc., have now implemented support for packaged and not packaged books  

**Tzviya Siegman:** May want to look at work of Apache Annotator, active recent (0.1 release just out)  

**Ivan Herman:** Please try to send your updates in format we can add to our testing pages  

> *Lars Wallin:* [https://hindenburg.com/products/sectors/audio-book-publishers](https://hindenburg.com/products/sectors/audio-book-publishers)

**Ivan Herman:** Possibly also Hindenburg could create similar report in same format  

**Lars Wallin:** Will speak to them by London if not before  
â€¦ will encourage them to become active in CG.  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* for all Apache Annotator 0.1 release: [https://dist.apache.org/repos/dist/dev/incubator/annotator/source/0.1.0/rc.1/](https://dist.apache.org/repos/dist/dev/incubator/annotator/source/0.1.0/rc.1/)

> *Lars Wallin:* Thanks Tzviya :)

**Ivan Herman:** The question for Kobo - when will they be in position to run the tests, even if they don't have ready to deploy for public  
â€¦ test report not required to report test results and provide feedback  
â€¦ this would be helpful and would allow us to more easily move to next phase of recommendation process  

**Lars Wallin:** What is deadline?  

**Wendy Reid:** deadline for testing reports is March 30.  

**Ivan Herman:** Really March 30 we say we will not go to next phase before then, but actually our later deadlines give us some flexibility  
â€¦ could realistically go as late as 1 May  

**Wendy Reid:** adjourn, will meet next week if enough to talk about - will send out agenda  

> *Lars Wallin:* ðŸ‘‹

---


### 5. Resolutions
{: #res}

* [Resolution #1](#resolution1): last minutes approved
