---
layout: minutes
date: 2019-05-20
title:  — 2019-05-20
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://github.com/w3c/publ-wg/tree/master/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-05-20-pwg.md",
        "name": " — Minutes",
        "about": "",
        "dateCreated": "2019-05-20",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "",
            "startDate": "2019-05-20",
            "endDate": "2019-05-20",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": []
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": []
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

#  — Minutes
{: .no_toc}
***– DRAFT Minutes –***
{: .draft_notice}

**Date:** 2019-05-20

See also the [Agenda]() and the [IRC Log](undefined)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** 

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** 

**Scribe(s):** 

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


> *1:52:21:* → RRSAgent joined (rrsagent@public.cloak)

> *1:52:21:* RRSAgent logging to [https://www.w3.org/2019/05/20-pwg-irc](https://www.w3.org/2019/05/20-pwg-irc)

> *1:52:28:* → Zakim joined (zakim@public.cloak)

> *1:52:44:* dauwhe: Meeting: Publishing Working Group telecon

> *1:52:49:* dauwhe: Date: 20 May 2019

> *1:53:05:* dauwhe: Chair: Wendy Reid

> *1:53:15:* dauwhe: RRSAgent, make logs public

> *1:53:15:* RRSAgent: I have made the request, dauwhe

> *1:53:45:* → nickruffilo joined (~nickruffilo@public.cloak)

> *1:59:05:* → Avneesh joined (~chatzilla@public.cloak)

> *1:59:27:* → Nellie joined (~Nellie@public.cloak)

> *1:59:32:* → rkwright joined (~textual@public.cloak)

> *2:00:12:* → geoffjukes joined (~geoffjukes@public.cloak)

> *2:00:28:* → laudrain joined (~laudrain@public.cloak)

> *2:00:38:* laudrain: present+

> *2:00:56:* tzviya: regrets+ Tzviya_Siegman

> *2:01:17:* — tzviya is lurking on IRC while the sick little boy sleeps

> *2:01:23:* → romain joined (~rdeltour@public.cloak)

> *2:01:34:* Nellie: present+

> *2:01:47:* ⇐ Karen quit (Karen@public.cloak): Client closed connection

> *2:01:48:* dauwhe: present+

> *2:01:51:* dauwhe: zakim, who is here?

> *2:01:51:* Zakim: Present: laudrain, Nellie, dauwhe

> *2:01:53:* Zakim: On IRC I see romain, laudrain, geoffjukes, rkwright, Nellie, Avneesh, nickruffilo, Zakim, RRSAgent, rachel_, wendyreid, tzviya, plinss_, dauwhe, github-bot, wseltzer, bigbluehat,

> *2:01:53:* Zakim: ... astearns, dmitry, florian[m], Travis, jyasskin

> *2:01:55:* → Bill_Kasdorf joined (~Bill_Kasdorf@public.cloak)

> *2:01:56:* wendyreid: present+

> *2:02:01:* bigbluehat: regrets+

> *2:02:03:* Bill_Kasdorf: present+

> *2:02:08:* → Karen joined (Karen@public.cloak)

> *2:02:09:* — bigbluehat meetings...

> *2:02:25:* ⇐ rkwright quit (~textual@public.cloak): "Textual IRC Client: www.textualapp.com"

> *2:02:44:* Bill_Kasdorf: not hearing anything on the GTM

> *2:02:54:* — wendyreid It hasn't been turned on yet

> *2:03:10:* → franco joined (~franco@public.cloak)

> *2:04:20:* → BenSchroeter joined (~BenSchroeter@public.cloak)

> *2:04:24:* romain: present+

> *2:04:26:* BenSchroeter: present+

> *2:04:57:* — geoffjukes really sleepy this morning....

> *2:05:06:* nickruffilo: scribenick: NickRuffilo

> *2:05:11:* → George joined (~chatzilla@public.cloak)

> *2:05:26:* George: present+ George

> *2:05:27:* nickruffilo: present+

> *2:05:38:* wendyreid: [https://www.w3.org/publishing/groups/publ-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-04-29-pwg](https://www.w3.org/publishing/groups/publ-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-04-29-pwg)

> *2:05:47:* wendyreid:  [https://www.w3.org/publishing/groups/publ-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-05-06-pwg.html](https://www.w3.org/publishing/groups/publ-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-05-06-pwg.html)

> *2:05:50:* nickruffilo: Wendy: first up - approval of minutes from the last meeting as well as the face-to-face meeting.

> *2:05:54:* wendyreid: [https://www.w3.org/publishing/groups/publ-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-05-07-pwg.html](https://www.w3.org/publishing/groups/publ-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-05-07-pwg.html)

> *2:05:58:* nickruffilo: ... minutes approved

> *2:06:40:* nickruffilo: ... For those not at the face to face, we had a great discussion about where we are now and where we want to head.  Much of the meeting time was spent talking about what we need to do to get web publication and audiobooks to CR

> *2:07:30:* nickruffilo: ... an update to where audiobooks are.  We decided to publish audiobooks as a first working draft.  We had a presentation about archiving.  We're hoping to see some proposals from them about how web publications and archiving can come together.

> *2:07:42:* Avneesh: present+

> *2:07:53:* → garth joined (~garth@public.cloak)

> *2:07:59:* garth: present+ Garth

> *2:07:59:* → mateus joined (~uid269381@public.cloak)

> *2:08:03:* wendyreid: [https://github.com/w3c/publ-wg/labels/action](https://github.com/w3c/publ-wg/labels/action)

> *2:08:04:* nickruffilo: ... We talked about some future profiles for different web publications.  We talked about what documents and when we would need them.  Then we came out with some action items.

> *2:08:04:* mateus: present+

> *2:08:09:* → timCole joined (~timCole@public.cloak)

> *2:08:19:* → CharlesL joined (~Adium@public.cloak)

> *2:08:31:* → david_stroup joined (~david_stroup@public.cloak)

> *2:09:02:* nickruffilo: ... Thanks to Ivan we now have action items as items in the github repo.  Anyone who has an action item, you can check on it there.  We do have 16 action items that we want to get covered.  If you have one, please make sure you take a look at it.

> *2:09:17:* ⇐ RRSAgent quit (rrsagent@public.cloak): Request too long

> *2:09:27:* laudrain: q+

> *2:09:27:* — Zakim sees laudrain on the speaker queue

> *2:09:44:* wendyreid: ack laudrain

> *2:09:44:* — Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue

> *2:09:46:* nickruffilo: ... We reviewed technical feedback.

> *2:09:58:* franco: present+

> *2:10:26:* nickruffilo: Luc: The publishing business group recieved a request about a summary of the minutes from the face to face.  If you don't mind, can the business group get the summary?

> *2:11:12:* → marisa joined (~textual@public.cloak)

> *2:11:23:* nickruffilo: Wendy: We did review the feedback from TAG about web publications  and audiobooks.  we are in the process of addressing those questions.  Tzviya and I were about to talk to Dan Applequist ...  We wanted to make it more clear about what we were doing with audiobooks for the TAG

> *2:11:27:* marisa: present+

> *2:11:31:* timCole: present+

> *2:12:19:* nickruffilo: ... Testing and implementation team.  Before we go to CR we need a testing and implementation plan for our implementors to follow.  I believe we had a few people volunteer to be part of the team.  Tim, deborah and benjamin possibly?  We need a lead...  Please volunteer

> *2:12:50:* nickruffilo: ... We need someone with good project management skills - not necessarily technical skills.  We do need a lead so we can get through this.  Someone who is really organized.

> *2:12:57:* timCole: q+

> *2:12:57:* — Zakim sees timCole on the speaker queue

> *2:13:04:* wendyreid: ack timCole

> *2:13:04:* — Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue

> *2:13:29:* nickruffilo: Tim: One question that came up in the face to face is the knowledge of what testing means in W3C.  So anyone with experience with W3C testing and could lead this it would be great.

> *2:13:46:* nickruffilo: ... W3C testing is essential to get to recommendation and it's a little nuansed.

> *2:14:38:* nickruffilo: Wendy: We wanted to talk about the publication timeline review.  We came up with some dates that we wanted to hold ourselves to.  The first major date is getting WP and audiobooks to CR.

> *2:15:14:* nickruffilo: ... We want to get to CR the end of September, so the plan is that shortly after TPAC we can move it.  That means we need packaging and distribution spec done by the end of june.  The implementation by the end of June...

> *2:15:33:* nickruffilo: ... We think this is doable if we  buckle down.  Does anyone have comments or concerns?

> *2:15:55:* nickruffilo: (( crickets ))

> *2:16:25:* nickruffilo: ... I have it on the schedule that Laurent was going to share packaging items.

> *2:16:32:* — geoffjukes afk

> *2:16:45:* — tzviya is not afraid to appoint people to tasks even when not present

> *2:16:49:* nickruffilo: ... but we'll move to the next item and go back to Laurent in a moment.

> *2:16:50:* → laurent joined (~textual@public.cloak)

> *2:16:54:* wendyreid: [https://www.iab.org/activities/workshops/escape-workshop/](https://www.iab.org/activities/workshops/escape-workshop/)

> *2:17:00:* laurent: present+

> *2:17:16:* nickruffilo: ... There is a workshop happening - the escape workshop.  It is to address packaging on the web.

> *2:17:28:* — nickruffilo theres irony in the use of escape for content we are constricting together

> *2:17:37:* dauwhe: q+

> *2:17:37:* — Zakim sees dauwhe on the speaker queue

> *2:17:44:* wendyreid: ack dauwhe

> *2:17:44:* — Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue

> *2:17:44:* nickruffilo: ... we want to make sure people are aware of it and some attend on behalf of the working group

> *2:18:09:* nickruffilo: Dave: I'm going to make some attempt to attend.  This is looking at things from a very high level.  I want to make sure we have some representation there.

> *2:18:21:* nickruffilo: Wendy: That would be amazing

> *2:18:39:* laudrain: +1 to Dave

> *2:18:59:* George: q+

> *2:18:59:* — Zakim sees George on the speaker queue

> *2:19:07:* nickruffilo: ... The next items is: the AB election - the last day for voting is the 30th of may.  If you are an AC rep, make sure you vote, if not, tell your preference to your rep.

> *2:19:15:* wendyreid: ack George

> *2:19:15:* — Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue

> *2:19:29:* nickruffilo: George: I want to promote Avneesh.  Ask your AC rep to consider him.  I'd love to see people put him their #1 choice.

> *2:19:30:* dauwhe: q+

> *2:19:30:* — Zakim sees dauwhe on the speaker queue

> *2:19:36:* wendyreid: ack dauwhe

> *2:19:36:* — Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue

> *2:19:45:* nickruffilo: Dave: If you do that, put Heleca (sp) as your #2

> *2:19:54:* laurent: ok

> *2:19:55:* dauwhe: s/Heleca/Elika Etemad/

> *2:20:01:* — nickruffilo Thank you dave

> *2:20:20:* laurent: [https://github.com/w3c/pwpub/issues/35](https://github.com/w3c/pwpub/issues/35)

> *2:20:33:* — tzviya is happy to recommend the complete ranking for AB. Let me know if you'd like my advice

> *2:20:59:* nickruffilo: Laurent: Lets start with #35.  The issue is about file and characters to disallow explicitly (or not) in a specification.  There were few comments and I put in the draft a sentence that's in the last comment of the thread.  I feel it is sufficient.

> *2:21:38:* nickruffilo: ... if there are no unhappy comments, we can close the issue.  The resolution would be to just quote the zip specifications - which has only a few constraints on the file and directory names - no use of explicit characters.

> *2:21:46:* garth: q+

> *2:21:46:* — Zakim sees garth on the speaker queue

> *2:21:46:* nickruffilo: +1

> *2:21:51:* wendyreid: ack garth

> *2:21:51:* — Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue

> *2:22:26:* nickruffilo: Garth: That looks fine to me, and I presume that 'must' probably should be a should in what you wrote.  It's not a normative statement either way.

> *2:22:40:* — dauwhe authors MUST do the right thing, which shall remain unspecified :)

> *2:22:48:* — geoffjukes back. Apologies

> *2:22:56:* laurent: resolution The [ZIP] specification has few constraints on the characters allowed for file and directory names. When crafting such names, authors should be careful to use characters which allow a broad interoperability among operating systems and are compatible with relative URLs.

> *2:23:18:* nickruffilo: +1

> *2:23:20:* laudrain: +1

> *2:23:21:* wendyreid: +1

> *2:23:22:* garth: +1

> *2:23:23:* geoffjukes: +1

> *2:23:24:* timCole: +1

> *2:23:25:* marisa: +1

> *2:23:58:* nickruffilo: Laurent: I will modify the draft then close.

> *2:24:21:* laurent: [https://github.com/w3c/pwpub/issues/36](https://github.com/w3c/pwpub/issues/36)

> *2:24:24:* — dauwhe I'm renaming index.html to \?//`##....htm

> *2:24:39:* laurent: [https://w3c.github.io/publ-epub-revision/epub32/spec/epub-ocf.html#ocf-conformance-rs](https://w3c.github.io/publ-epub-revision/epub32/spec/epub-ocf.html#ocf-conformance-rs)

> *2:24:42:* nickruffilo: ... next is issue #36 a little more complex.  There were high-level requirements that are there...

> *2:25:15:* laurent: A compliant User Agent MUST meet at least one of the following criteria:

> *2:25:15:* laurent: It is able to import the Package and fulfill the requirements of an audiobook player as defined in [[wpub-ucr]] ;

> *2:25:15:* laurent: It is able to expose the Package as a W3C Web Publication, as defined in [[wpub]];

> *2:25:15:* laurent: It is able to convert a Package to an alternative audiobook format suitable for electronic distribution.

> *2:25:22:* nickruffilo: ... We want to keep something about conformance of reading systems/user agents but we don't want the words that are in the OCF document.  I tried to express compliance with what is pasted in IRC now...

> *2:25:36:* dauwhe: q+

> *2:25:36:* — Zakim sees dauwhe on the speaker queue

> *2:26:04:* wendyreid: ack dauwhe

> *2:26:04:* — Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue

> *2:26:56:* nickruffilo: Dave: These kinds of - we have lots of statements of these kinds across the specs.  With the eye of writing tests, it makes it really hard to write a test for these sort of things.  If I was building an implementation, what would I have to do.  I don't have answers but I have a general concern that we need testable assertions

> *2:27:00:* nickruffilo: Laurent: I agree

> *2:27:19:* laurent: a rule about missing resources (indicated in the manifest but missing in the zip) and another about extra resources (present in the zip but missing in the manifest). In the first case, the safe side is to consider the Package invalid -: stop its processing. In the second case, it is to consider that the extra resources are not harmful and consider the Package valid.

> *2:27:27:* nickruffilo: ... This sort of defintions of packaging - it's not a conformance.  There is an alternative proposal that I'm writing now.  (pasted in IRC)

> *2:28:12:* nickruffilo: ... we could consider an UA as a parsers - and if it see missing items, it should raise an error and consider the package damaged.

> *2:28:24:* nickruffilo: ..., not damaged - inavlid

> *2:28:38:* nickruffilo: ... For me it's better for it to be boolean - it is either good or bad.

> *2:28:54:* dauwhe: q+

> *2:28:54:* — Zakim sees dauwhe on the speaker queue

> *2:28:57:* wendyreid: ack dauwhe

> *2:28:57:* — Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue

> *2:29:48:* nickruffilo: Dave: Once again we're faced with the collision of two worlds.  The web tries to route around any damage from network to HTML to CSS:  If there is something missing, it tries to keep going the best it can.  In the XML world, if a file isn't well formed, the parser must refuse...

> *2:30:22:* nickruffilo: ... epub has formal validation - but we're relatively silent as to how reading systems should conform to this.  I would lean towards not requiring user agents to give up if they see an error.

> *2:30:28:* nickruffilo: q+

> *2:30:28:* — Zakim sees nickruffilo on the speaker queue

> *2:30:33:* wendyreid: ack nickruffilo

> *2:30:33:* — Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue

> *2:31:16:* wendyreid: nickruffilo: What if we think in terms of the opposite, if an error is found, we focus on the resource being available and playable. If a valid audio file is provided, it has to be played in the reading order.

> *2:31:31:* wendyreid: ... we provide the files in order, can they be played ,that is a test case

> *2:31:41:* — nickruffilo thank you for scribing

> *2:31:47:* garth: q+

> *2:31:47:* — Zakim sees garth on the speaker queue

> *2:31:50:* wendyreid: ack garth

> *2:31:50:* — Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue

> *2:32:32:* nickruffilo: Garth: I think what Nick may make sense at the audiobook layer, but for the lightweight packaging format, i'm not sure that it fits in the packaging spec.  Listening to both dave and Laurent's comments on different sides of requirements./

> *2:32:54:* nickruffilo: ... for packaging, I can see being stricter - maybe lean more towards Dave take at the audiobook level being more permissive...

> *2:33:05:* — nickruffilo i wasn't offering a specific, just a general format to think in the positive

> *2:33:08:* Bill_Kasdorf: q+

> *2:33:08:* — Zakim sees Bill_Kasdorf on the speaker queue

> *2:33:12:* wendyreid: ack Bill_Kasdorf

> *2:33:12:* — Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue

> *2:33:40:* laurent: q+

> *2:33:40:* — Zakim sees laurent on the speaker queue

> *2:33:55:* nickruffilo: Bill: Since the audiobooks is basically a profile of the master WP constellation of specs - my concern is having a profile that undoes something that it is a profile of.  I think of a profile that adds something not that makes the master invalid.

> *2:33:59:* laurent: q-

> *2:33:59:* — Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue

> *2:34:07:* nickruffilo: Wendy: The packaging spec isn't a profile of the main spec, it's a companion

> *2:34:15:* nickruffilo: Bill: I wanted to make sure we weren't creating a conflict there.

> *2:34:37:* nickruffilo: Wendy: in this case, the packaging spec is a companion, but it may be replaced if web packaging becomes a thing for example.

> *2:34:46:* laurent: q+

> *2:34:46:* — Zakim sees laurent on the speaker queue

> *2:34:50:* wendyreid: ack laurent

> *2:34:50:* — Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue

> *2:35:20:* nickruffilo: Laurent: I agree with Nick to think positively about the user agent where it has to do something if resources exist.  My only worry is that we have to address user agent conformance.

> *2:35:44:* nickruffilo: ... We could end up with a user agent processing model.  That it has to open the manifest and process the reading order.  Do we want to go there?

> *2:36:21:* nickruffilo: ... especially since we already have a processing model in the WP spec.

> *2:36:50:* nickruffilo: Wendy: Should the packaging model not differ to the WP spec?  Wouldn't need to be in the packaging spec...

> *2:37:17:* nickruffilo: Laurent: What is the processing model in the main spec.  I'm not sure we have spec'd anything about that yet.

> *2:37:29:* nickruffilo: Wendy: It would fall into the web publications.

> *2:38:25:* — nickruffilo nellie - your keyboard is making quite a bit of noise, please mute :)

> *2:39:06:* nickruffilo: Wendy: I think the packaging spec should just reference the processing model of web publications and use that.  It seems the clearest way to proceed

> *2:39:09:* — nickruffilo thank you

> *2:39:23:* nickruffilo: Laurent: I can try - it'll be two lines.

> *2:39:35:* nickruffilo: Wendy: There are lots of items in the audiobook spec that feel the same

> *2:39:45:* laurent: [https://github.com/w3c/pwpub/issues/32](https://github.com/w3c/pwpub/issues/32)

> *2:40:19:* nickruffilo: Laurent: Moving on to another one we should solve today and close #32 about mimetype.  Shoudl we have a mimetype file in the package.  It seems that the consensus was to have no mimetype in the package.  If there was a mimetype it should be first in the package...

> *2:41:06:* nickruffilo: ... it would be good for processors who didn't want to open the zip to know what it is.  When it comes to helping studios - the consensus seemed to be avoid having any sort of mimetype file.

> *2:41:16:* nickruffilo: ... Maybe it'll write a proposal for resolution and we'll discuss it

> *2:41:26:* laurent: proposal is : there will be no mimetype file in the package file.

> *2:41:51:* George: q+

> *2:41:51:* — Zakim sees George on the speaker queue

> *2:41:55:* wendyreid: ack George

> *2:41:55:* — Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue

> *2:42:06:* nickruffilo: George: Would everything rely on file extension?

> *2:42:35:* dauwhe: q+

> *2:42:35:* — Zakim sees dauwhe on the speaker queue

> *2:42:37:* nickruffilo: Laurent: in the file extension or if it is downloaded, it can rely on a mimetype exposed from the web.  If you have it in a filesystem it is about the file extension

> *2:42:37:* wendyreid: ack dauwhe

> *2:42:37:* — Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue

> *2:43:25:* nickruffilo: Dave: programs in general may read the first few bytes of the file... Programs will do a bit of investigating and don't necessarily trust the file extension...

> *2:43:48:* nickruffilo: +1

> *2:43:52:* laurent: +1

> *2:43:53:* wendyreid: proposed: there will be no mimetype file in the package file.

> *2:43:57:* garth: +0

> *2:43:57:* laudrain: +1

> *2:43:58:* timCole: +1

> *2:44:01:* geoffjukes: +1

> *2:44:02:* wendyreid: +1

> *2:44:07:* George: +1

> *2:44:50:* nickruffilo: Garth: My comment - I do see some positive nature - clearly you'll look at the first few bytes - but it's not that big an issue

> *2:44:53:* ⇐ Karen quit (Karen@public.cloak): Client closed connection

> *2:44:59:* wendyreid: RESOLVED: There will be no mimetype file in the package file.

> *2:45:05:* laurent: [https://github.com/w3c/pwpub/issues/29](https://github.com/w3c/pwpub/issues/29)

> *2:45:26:* nickruffilo: Laurent: In the discussion about mimetypes, #29 what will we choose for file extension and media-type

> *2:45:42:* laurent: application/lpf+zip

> *2:45:48:* nickruffilo: ... in the draft the extension is .lpf (lightweight package format) mimetype is application/lfp+zip

> *2:46:14:* nickruffilo: #29 on the 29th RESOLVED!

> *2:47:20:* nickruffilo: Wendy: No meeting next week.  It's a holiday in the US (memorial day)

> *2:47:30:* — nickruffilo LONG LIVE THE QUEENS

> *2:48:27:* nickruffilo: ... the next meeting is the following week.  June 3rd.  We'll cover remaining packaging issues and anything else - please reach out if you can help with the testing and implementation team.  If you've done testing for W3C please let us know.

> *2:48:38:* — nickruffilo thank you!

> *2:48:44:* — geoffjukes waves!

> *2:48:45:* ⇐ Bill_Kasdorf quit (~Bill_Kasdorf@public.cloak): "Page closed"

> *2:48:46:* CharlesL: present+

> *2:48:48:* ⇐ Avneesh quit (~chatzilla@public.cloak): "ChatZilla 0.9.93 [Firefox 55.0.3/20170824053622]"

> *2:48:49:* ⇐ geoffjukes quit (~geoffjukes@public.cloak): "Page closed"

> *2:48:49:* ← CharlesL left (~Adium@public.cloak):

> *2:48:51:* ⇐ BenSchroeter quit (~BenSchroeter@public.cloak): "Page closed"

> *2:48:52:* dauwhe: rrsagent: draft minutes

> *2:48:54:* ⇐ laurent quit (~textual@public.cloak): "Textual IRC Client: www.textualapp.com"

> *2:48:57:* ⇐ timCole quit (~timCole@public.cloak): "Page closed"

> *2:48:57:* ⇐ Nellie quit (~Nellie@public.cloak): "Page closed"

> *2:48:59:* ⇐ laudrain quit (~laudrain@public.cloak): laudrain

> *2:49:03:* ⇐ marisa quit (~textual@public.cloak): "Textual IRC Client: www.textualapp.com"

> *2:49:08:* ⇐ romain quit (~rdeltour@public.cloak): romain

> *2:49:48:* — dauwhe where did rrsagent go??

> *2:49:52:* ⇐ George quit (~chatzilla@public.cloak): "ChatZilla 0.9.92-rdmsoft [XULRunner 35.0.1/20150122214805]"

> *2:49:57:* → Karen joined (Karen@public.cloak)

> *2:51:04:* ⇐ nickruffilo quit (~nickruffilo@public.cloak): "Page closed"

> *2:54:59:* ⇐ garth quit (~garth@public.cloak): garth

> *3:00:13:* → garth joined (~garth@public.cloak)

> *3:04:14:* ⇐ Karen quit (Karen@public.cloak): ""

> *3:05:42:* → Karen joined (Karen@public.cloak)

---
