Meetings/F2F/2018.05.Toronto.md, before:

---
layout: default
---

# F2F Meeting in Toronto, May 30-31, 2018

**Location**:
* Rakuten Kobo
* 135 Liberty St, Toronto, ON M6K 1Y7
* See [Google map](https://www.google.nl/maps/place/135+Liberty+St,+Toronto,+ON+M6K+1Y7,+Canada/@43.6396798,-79.4233743,15z/data=!4m5!3m4!1s0x882b3507111f36b5:0xbc547fc483db4da4!8m2!3d43.6372845!4d-79.4234601?hl=en)

**Some hotels**:

Hotels (_figures in USD_). Listed here in order of what may be the best fit. The first one is 12 minutes from the office by car/cab, 15-20 minutes by transit or a 35-40 minute walk. As you are likely aware Toronto is big in a geographical sense. Kobo's office is significantly west of downtown but that’s where all the hotels are so I’d suggest something downtown, there’s really nothing right by the office.
 
- [Hyatt Regency Toronto](https://toronto.regency.hyatt.com/en/hotel/home.html), $240,  reasonably priced and a good location
- [Executive Hotel Cosmopolitan Toronto](http://www.cosmotoronto.com/default.htm), $213,  same as above but farther east
- [Le Germain Hotel Toronto](http://www.legermainhotels.com/en/torontomercer/), $313,  same approximate location as #1 but pricier
- [Intercontinental Toronto Centre](http://www.torontocentre.intercontinental.com/#gref), $243,  about 5 minutes south of King
- [One King West Hotel & Residence](https://www.onekingwest.com/), $285,  on King but farther East
- [The Gladstone](http://www.gladstonehotel.com/), $197,  unlikely to fit everyone but it’s a cool west end hotel near the office
- [RADISSON ADMIRAL HOTEL Toronto-Harbourfront](https://www.radisson.com/toronto-hotel-on-m5j2n5/ontoront/hotel), $215,  a bit far south (maybe a 10 minute walk from King which you’d need to get up to in order to get across to the Kobo office)
- [Super 8 Downtown Toronto](http://www.super8downtowntoronto.com/), does have rooms for less than $200USD.

**Airport information**

- “Billy Bishop” which is downtown on the water. It’s really easy to get in and out of as well as to and from the hotels. The catch is they tend to use smaller planes (those who don’t like flying might want to avoid it) and flight availability is not as good as Pearson.
- “Pearson” which is North West of the city and where most of the flights come in to. It’s a pretty typical airport in terms of hassle and size.


## Agenda, Participants

T.B.D.

Commit message:

Added the reference to the Kobo rate

Meetings/F2F/2018.05.Toronto.md, after:

---
layout: default
---

# F2F Meeting in Toronto, May 30-31, 2018

**Location**:
* Rakuten Kobo
* 135 Liberty St, Toronto, ON M6K 1Y7
* See [Google map](https://www.google.nl/maps/place/135+Liberty+St,+Toronto,+ON+M6K+1Y7,+Canada/@43.6396798,-79.4233743,15z/data=!4m5!3m4!1s0x882b3507111f36b5:0xbc547fc483db4da4!8m2!3d43.6372845!4d-79.4234601?hl=en)

**Some hotels**:

Hotels (_figures in USD_). Listed here in order of what may be the best fit. The first one is 12 minutes from the office by car/cab, 15-20 minutes by transit or a 35-40 minute walk. As you are likely aware Toronto is big in a geographical sense. Kobo's office is significantly west of downtown but that’s where all the hotels are so I’d suggest something downtown, there’s really nothing right by the office.
 
- [Hyatt Regency Toronto](https://toronto.regency.hyatt.com/en/hotel/home.html), $240,  reasonably priced and a good location. Kobo has a negotiated rate, however, that may push down the price to under $200. If you are interested, please contact Wendy Reid ([wendy.reid@rakuten.com](mailto:wendy.reid@rakuten.com)).
- [Executive Hotel Cosmopolitan Toronto](http://www.cosmotoronto.com/default.htm), $213,  same as above but farther east
- [Le Germain Hotel Toronto](http://www.legermainhotels.com/en/torontomercer/), $313,  same approximate location as #1 but pricier
- [Intercontinental Toronto Centre](http://www.torontocentre.intercontinental.com/#gref), $243,  about 5 minutes south of King
- [One King West Hotel & Residence](https://www.onekingwest.com/), $285,  on King but farther East
- [The Gladstone](http://www.gladstonehotel.com/), $197,  unlikely to fit everyone but it’s a cool west end hotel near the office
- [RADISSON ADMIRAL HOTEL Toronto-Harbourfront](https://www.radisson.com/toronto-hotel-on-m5j2n5/ontoront/hotel), $215,  a bit far south (maybe a 10 minute walk from King which you’d need to get up to in order to get across to the Kobo office)
- [Super 8 Downtown Toronto](http://www.super8downtowntoronto.com/), does have rooms for less than $200USD.

**Airport information**

- “Billy Bishop” which is downtown on the water. It’s really easy to get in and out of as well as to and from the hotels. The catch is they tend to use smaller planes (those who don’t like flying might want to avoid it) and flight availability is not as good as Pearson.
- “Pearson” which is North West of the city and where most of the flights come in to. It’s a pretty typical airport in terms of hassle and size.


## Agenda, Participants

T.B.D.
