---
layout: minutes
date: 16-02-2022
title: Audiobooks WG Telco — 16-02-2022
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": [
            "https://schema.org",
            {
                "resolution": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/resolution",
                    "@context": {
                        "@vocab": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/"
                    }
                },
                "irc": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/irc"
                }
            }
        ],
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/publishing/groups/epub-wg/Meetings/Minutes/16/16-02-2022-pwg",
        "name": "Audiobooks WG Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "Audiobooks WG Telco",
        "dateCreated": "16-02-2022",
        "irc": "pwg",
        "datePublished": "2022-02-16",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "accessMode": "textual",
        "accessModeSufficient": "textual",
        "encodingFormat": "text/html",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "inLanguage": "en-US",
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "Audiobooks WG Telco",
            "startDate": "16-02-2022",
            "endDate": "16-02-2022",
            "location": {
                "@type": "VirtualLocation",
                "description": "Teleconference"
            },
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Wendy Reid"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Tzviya Siegman"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Wendy Reid"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ivan Herman"
                }
            ]
        }
    }

---

# Audiobooks WG Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc .draft_notice_needed}



**Date:** 16-02-2022

See also the [Agenda](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/d15352a9-86a0-44f4-ab19-7c4aad4d654b/20220309T090000) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2022/02/16-pwg-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Wendy Reid, Tzviya Siegman, Ivan Herman

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Wendy Reid

**Scribe(s):** Tzviya Siegman, Wendy Reid

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. duration property when using t= fragment selectors (issue audiobooks#110)
{: #section1}

_See github issue [audiobooks#110](https://github.com/w3c/audiobooks/issues/110)._

<!-- issue w3c/audiobooks/110 -->



**Wendy Reid:** We made a decision around duration with fragment selector.  
… we will not allow them on the URL property.  
… I discovered that we had them in there for a reason..  
… some books have a single track for multiple chapters.  
… This would require frag selectors for accurate nav.  
… If we keep this requirement, we need to make a requirement for tOC.  

**Laurent Le Meur:** We don't necessarily need both. If there is no ToC, there will be no fallback other than tracks and we can hope that tracks are in sync with semantic chapters.  

**Andreas Duchen:** allowing frag selectors introduces many other requirements for RS.  

**Wendy Reid:** I am in favor of making ToC required, but it could be challenging.  
… so we keep our original resolution w slightly tweaked language and add a note about importance of ToCs to fill the gap.  

**Andreas Duchen:** Is Fragmented selector used today?.  

**Wendy Reid:** no.  

**Ivan Herman:** as far as I know the media fragment has remained a theoretical construct.  

**Wendy Reid:** we will hold off on merging the PR until I have made further edits.  

### 2. charter and publication issues.
{: #section2}

**Wendy Reid:** are we currently charted in a way that we can make these changes?.  

**Ivan Herman:** do these changes adjust normative text?.  

**Wendy Reid:** yes.  

**Ivan Herman:** there are different classes of changes. If they are minor, then we can change them. We have to consider whether we can back them up with testing..  
… if this doesn't invalidate our tests or implementations then I think it can be done.  

> *Ivan Herman:* See [classes of changes per process](https://www.w3.org/2021/Process-20211102/#correction-classes).

**Tzviya Siegman:** It's clear to me that it's not clear to anyone how to implement the new process.  

**Ivan Herman:** Goal was to simplify things right?.  
… If we update we still need to issue a call to AC.  

**Laurent Le Meur:** We can say that we are resolving a contradiction in the spec.  

**Tzviya Siegman:** It might not be in any of those categories; rather it could be errata.  

**Wendy Reid:** it looks like we can make some class 4 (new feature) changes.  

### 3. TOC related issues.
{: #section3}

_See github issue [audiobooks#96](https://github.com/w3c/audiobooks/issues/96)._

<!-- issue w3c/audiobooks/96 -->



_See github issue [audiobooks#97](https://github.com/w3c/audiobooks/issues/97)._

<!-- issue w3c/audiobooks/97 -->



**Wendy Reid:** issue 96 is whether we require a ToC and 97 is asking if we use the format of Publication Manifest.  

**Ivan Herman:** I heard Laurent saying that requiring a ToC is unrealistic.  
… it would invalidate most existing audiobooks.  

**Wendy Reid:** When we started discussions about toc, we were and still are concerned about a11y.  
… HTML is the most obviously accessible, but is it?.  

**Laurent Le Meur:** reading systems extract labels. We could provide samples of simple HTML ToCs..  
… We have already done the work on Publication Manifest - let's use it.  

**Andreas Duchen:** we don't use the html. We convert it to an obj structure and then render as html, but it's no problem to parse it.  

**Laurent Le Meur:** In thorium I am planning basic HTML TOC with no css at all.  
… and we will be able to show a more structured html toc as well.  
… we should be clear that publishing manifest is the basis of ToC so that people don't create something else.  

**Tzviya Siegman:** +1.  

**Wendy Reid:** we can consider re-wording "A TOC, regardless of situation, SHOULD be included".  

---
