admin/FPWD-s/PublicationRequest.md, before:

To be sent to the webmaster, comm team, coralie, xueyuan, WG chairs when the DD is available.

----


(Coralie, Xueyuan, this is for information only; I will send you the HPN and AC mail drafts at the time of the publication)

Denis,

This is an official publication request for the publication of three Publishing on the Web Documents as First Public Working Drafts. The publication date is the 04 of January, 2018. The transition request for FPWD has been issued in:
	- https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/chairs/@@@@

the Director's approval is in:
	- @@@@


The documents are as follows
----------------------------

- Web Publications:
    - https://www.w3.org/TR/2018/WD-wpub-20180104
- Packaged Web Publications:
    - https://www.w3.org/TR/2018/WD-pwpub-20180104
- Web Annotation Extensions for Web Publications
    - https://www.w3.org/TR/2018/WD-wpub-ann-20180104


Abstract and Status Sections
----------------------------

See the previous URL-s

There are already snapshots on github:

- Web Publications:
    - https://w3c.github.io/wpub/snapshot
- Packaged Web Publications:
    - https://w3c.github.io/pwpub/snapshot
- Locators for Web Publications
    - https://w3c.github.io/wpub-ann/snapshot
    

The documents are already ready to go on my machine, I plan to install those documents as soon as you approve this. 

Thanks!

Ivan

Commit message:

Admin files updated with the snapshots installed.

admin/FPWD-s/PublicationRequest.md, after:

To be sent to the webmaster, comm team, coralie, xueyuan, & WG chairs when the DD is available.

----


(Coralie, Xueyuan, this is for information only; I will send you the HPN and AC mail drafts at the time of the publication)

Denis,

This is an official publication request for the publication of three Publishing on the Web Documents as First Public Working Drafts. The publication date is the 04 of January, 2018. The transition request for FPWD has been issued in:
	- https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/chairs/@@@@

the Director's approval is in:
	- @@@@


The documents are as follows
----------------------------

- Web Publications:
    - https://www.w3.org/TR/2018/WD-wpub-20180104
- Packaged Web Publications:
    - https://www.w3.org/TR/2018/WD-pwpub-20180104
- Web Annotation Extensions for Web Publications
    - https://www.w3.org/TR/2018/WD-wpub-ann-20180104


Abstract and Status Sections
----------------------------

See the previous URL-s

The document have already been installed; they all pass pubrules and the link checker.

The right 'bucket' on our TR page for the documents is "Digital Publishing". 

Thanks!

Ivan
